# SustainOSS Project Manager

**Context**: This position is for someone who is interested in taking over project management of SustainOSS. 
We're hoping to pay them out of the money available for Sustain from our general budget.

**Expected Rate**: Unsure. Ideally, this would be a permanent role, or this work should be offloaded to roles within the community so that they don't take on this work and then leave with their context.

**Goal**: To find someone willing to take over current processes, and to build better ones. We want someone who is keen to learn how Sustain works, document their current process, and remove friction from the approach taken at the moment. 

**Expected rate**:  $50 an hour? 

## Current Projects: 

* Newsletter: Currently not active
* Numbers tracking: [Justin](https://github.com/jdorfman) does it.
* Working Groups: Status: Some self-running, some not-self running
* Sustain Together: Status: [Richard](https://github.com/RichardLitt) and [Abby](https://github.com/acabunoc) run it
* SustainOSS Podcasts: [Richard](https://github.com/RichardLitt) runs them. 
* Social media: No one is owning this.
* Blog post writing: No one is owning this.
* SustainOSS conference hosting: Should be collaborative.
* Conference coordination: Should be collaborative.
* FOSS Fund Index: No one running this.
* Biweekly organizers meeting: [Richard](https://github.com/RichardLitt) runs this. 

    
### Out of scope:

* Fund-raising: [Richard](https://github.com/RichardLitt) and [Pia](https://github.com/piamancini).

**Newsletter**:
We should send this out more regularly.

**Numbers tracking**: 
[Justin](https://github.com/jdorfman) currently tracks the numbers. We also have a diversity spreadsheet we should add to.

**Working Groups**: 
Sustain has several working groups. There is a list, [here](https://sustainoss.org/working-groups/), which is not up to date and not exhaustive. The first task will be figuring which of these can be retired. 

Right now, there are these active working groups:
* UX Working Group. This group meets monthly, and has a dedicated core: [Justin Flory](https://github.com/jwflory), [Eriol Fox](https://github.com/Erioldoesdesign), [Georgia Bullen](https://github.com/georgiamoon), [Memo Esparza](), [Richard Littauer](https://github.com/RichardLitt), [Django](), [Victory Brown](https://github.com/Victorybrown)

* FOSS Foundations. A biweekly chat to talk about FOSS Foundations in open source.

* Corporate Authentic Participation in OSS. This may have moved entirely to TODO Group.

* Sustain Together. A biweekly meeting to talk about current activities in open source. They also post round-ups.
This is not technically a working group, but a shared resource for sharing links and talking about things.

### Expectations:
* Announce the working groups publicly on social media to help drive attendance
* Follow-up with actionable items from notes regularly.
* Keep track of current projects
* Clean up the working groups page. 
* Coordinate write-up of the updates after each session
* Post to social media
* Encourage participation in suggested projects through social media and newsletter

## [SustainOSS Podcasts](https://sustainoss.org/podcasts/)

We have three to six podcasts:

* [Sustain](https://podcast.sustainoss.org/)

* [Sustain Open Source Design](https://sosdesign.sustainoss.org/)

* [CHAOSS Podcast](https://podcast.chaoss.community/)

* [Ethics in Open Source](https://anchor.fm/ethicsinopensource)

* [Let's Talk Docs](https://ltd-podcast.sustainoss.org/)

* [Sustain: Climate and OSS Digital Infrastructure Fund Podcast]()

## Expectations for the Podcast 

* Coordinate with the other hosts and help them manage their podcasts: Ethics, Let's talk Docs, CHAOSS

* Social Media follow-through for posting about these our social media is currently a green field. 
We try to post about:
Ongoing working groups, giving advance notice and just-in-time reports on how to join Podcasts, when they go out and Major events.
Most of our social media is on Twitter, and it's mostly about the podcast.

## [Sustain Blog](https://sustainoss.org/blog/)

We do not have a blog. We need a blog.
SustainOSS conference hosting

Currently, organizing our conference organizing is largely Richard's job.

He tries to put as much on the community, but a lot of the doodle organizing and the like rests on him. 

A lot of this work can be outsourced to the organizers committee, but this may also take work. This is the reason we want this role.

### Biweekly organizers meeting**P

Currently, we meet with the organizing committee every two weeks. Richard sends out an email the day before with notes. There is no regular follow-up on actionable items. There is no coordinated note-taking. There is no agenda set except what people agree to bring before hand. 
